# CART 253: Project 2: "Keep Trying and Don't Detonate!"
By Emile Jolicoeur

Where some see video games as a form of distraction and entertainment, I see a potential for learning and putting your mental capacities to the test. This enjoyable method to develop critical thinking is what I strive to use in future projects, whether to educate the masses or incite them into making their own opinions. For now however, "Keep Trying and Don't Detonate!" is a project in which I use my knowledge in programming and game design, creating an interactive and intuitive puzzle game for all ages meant to test the player's knowledge and quick sense of deduction while facing unknown challenges under pressure. 

Using the skills I acquired throughout the semester such as the application of object-oriented programming, arrays and more, I created a fully randomized bomb, from the amount of modules, their physical position on the bomb, their type and their individual solution. Then, adding conditionals and user inputs such as pressing keys or inputs from the player's mouse, the scene and it's components were now interactive, from scaling up and highlighting whatever module the player is attempting to solve to rotating the entire bomb in order to view it at different angles.

As some might have already realized, this game was in fact heavily inspired by the two-player game "Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes", such as the total amount, or even the type of modules. However, the main alteration of making "Keep Trying and Don't Detonate!" singleplayer meant having some added complexity, which was solved by adding the use of the keyboard. While this still remains as a kind of bootleg of the original, this version is a proof of concept that although I may still have some work ahead, I am on the right track to reach my goals and clearly understand the main functionalities of programming in p5. It represents the potential to inspire and kickstart the future generation's critical thinking.